yeah and so so you have ether in sort of
the mid 19th century and then of course
later you have cocaine
you have opium which is well actually
cocaine comes along is presented as sort
of a cure to the opiate the morphine
addiction so like taking cocaine and I
had brought it's in my Mary Poppins bag
I'll show it to you later after the show
I brought a postcard that shows a
dentist and he's pulling a tooth and the
person wrote underneath just had a tooth
pulled with cocaine so they were they
were using it for all kinds of things
and doctors were becoming addicted
themselves to these drugs then heroin
comes along there invents heroin heroin
is given to your children it's put in
all kinds of things again it's um it's
positioned as you know break your
cocaine addiction now with heroin so it
just it was just a crazy period and it
was really it's sort of in the early
20th century when a lot of this stuff
started to be regulated finally Wow I
didn't bring any of that I believe there
was a mummy that was found in ancient
Egypt that tested positive for cocaine
but they think that it might be a false
positive because apparently there's
something else that they would consume
back then that would make you test
positive for cocaine I don't know yeah
Jim you'll find it but there was it was
some it was some evidence I think what
they were trying to connect us to now I
remember they were trying to connect
this to the idea that people from Egypt
had the ability to travel to the
Americas and that someone from here goes
American drugs in ancient Egyptian
mummies can make it a little larger
Plews it says it seems safe to say that
ba-ba-ba-ba-ba in 1992 a new study of
nine mummies from ancient Egypt created
quite a stir when his announced the
discovery of traces of nicotine and
cocaine in their hair both of these
chemicals came from plants found only in
South America and this research has
since been touted as evidence of
pre-columbian contact between American
Africa something thought to be
impossible based on the rest of the
archaeological record so what's going on
let's start by looking at the evidence
ba-ba-ba-ba-ba 1992 the perform Bice of
Seville
Balaban OVA and - that's a serious woman
and two of our colleagues at the
Institute for anthropology and well this
is a in Munich they're using German
words anthropology and probably in
humanities of the university in Munich
tests were carried out by nine mummies
on nine memories Munich Museum dating
from 1070 to 395 BC the study focused on
hair samples which were often used to
assess drug concentrations in the body
do the results was it say here what they
discovered all the mummies tested
positive for cocaine and hashish which
makes sense the results caused an
immediate stir what the come on let's
cut to the chase here folks the first
thing to say archaeologists are not just
being stubborn about this there many
reasons not to think the traces of drugs
and nine mummies means what is it what
is the conclusion cut to the chase here
thanks
this is a real teen cocaine okay back up
back up cocaine stop okay
cocaine most of us think of today was
first discovered early civilizations the
Andean region of South America that shoe
and a coca leaves exactly instead the
cocaine and possibly the nicotine - were
actually being introduced to the mummies
as part of an embalming process that's
interesting whoa
more likely the obtained cocaine from
America okay I don't know I give up
there's no way we'll have to read you
did a good yeah I tried yeah it just
seems like it's gonna take a long time
many resins and spices hold on a second
worse certainly used this day we aren't
entirely sure what they all were rare or
exotic materials were almost certainly
used and it is far less of a stretch
suggest this included imports from the
Middle East and potentially as far
afield as India hmm I don't know
I think they they're very skeptical
about the idea that people from Egypt
were able to travel all the way to the
Americas where the cocaine was but I
think I think part of the conclusion was
that there were some other things that
would make that you test positive for
cocaine oh it's interesting it what sort
of like poppy seeds make you test
positive for hey you have to go for a
drug test for work they say don't eat
poppy seed even hot
wasn't there like a Seinfeld I'm looking
at the Wikipedia for it to that it might
have been part of a thriving tourist
scam in Egypt in the Victorian area so
they might have like said it was there
and some people would come look and then
you know we haven't said what was there
the cocaine
it says since passing this corpse is off
the recently deceased as ancient mummies
was a thriving tourist game in Egypt
during the Victorian era like it could
have well that doesn't make sense
because the tests were done night after
the experiments even assuming the
cocaine was actually found on the
mummies it's possible this could have
been a contamination that occurred
cokeheads were fondling monies well then
one of those mummies because they wanted
to eat them as I said you know they'd be
round him up and to use that on ancient
Egyptian mummies that you had to yeah
think about how much was destroyed what
well I I think about it all the time
there's a fantastic cure-all mummy
powder Wow look at that that is nuts
mummy extract it's cure-all whatever you
got yeah
fixes you know it's a you know it's a
quack remedy when it's a cure-all we
still have quite remedies you know take
a pill lose weight those things that are
causing people to lose weight and those
late-night infomercials yeah take a
bunch of pills yeah that's all for
modern day quackery there's a fantastic
exhibit that's right now there's an IMAX
exhibit in Los Angeles at one of the
museum's I saw it about a year ago but
they have a King Tut exhibit and then on
top of that they have this gigantic IMAX
theater which is fantastic and they show
the all these different tombs that they
discovered and how they discovered them
and but it makes you really when they've
discovered King Tut's tomb we have no
idea how many similar tombs there were
that were looted over the you know yeah
yeah absolutely I mean what we have you
know in the museum's is just sort of a
fraction of yeah what we know and
instill stuff is coming to light it's
just a minimal yeah but yeah they the
Victorians are responsible for
destroying a lot if we're taking those
mummies and just grounding him on all
kinds of things yeah it's what what gets
me is what was the mote like where was
the theory like would the theory come
from
you want to see money when a powder some
of it would have been sort of folk
medicine influence you know there's
there's this idea of sympathetic magic
so for instance if you if I stabbed you
with a sword
let's get very violent you could be
healed if I put this sort of special
sympathetic powder on the sword it would
heal you so it was sort of this on
healing by distance so all kinds of
strange ideas existed but and that's why
it's important when you're studying the
history of medicine to really get into
the mindset because it's so wildly
different to the way we think right